{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\ul\b\f0\fs48\lang9 Python Libraries\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\ulnone\b0\fs24 Python Libraries and Packages are a set of useful modules and functions that minimize the use of code in our day to day life. There are over 137,000 python libraries and 198,826 python packages ready to ease developers\rquote  regular programming experience. These libraries and packages are intended for a variety of modern-day solutions.\par
Python libraries and python packages play a vital role in our everyday machine learning. In fact, their use is not limited to machine learning only. Data Science, image and data manipulation, data visualization \f1\endash  everything is a part of their generous applications.\par
\b\f0\lang16393 1) Matplotlib\b0\f1\lang9\par
Matplotlib is a Python library that uses Python Script to write 2-dimensional graphs and plots. Often mathematical or scientific applications require more than single axes in a representation. This library helps us to build multiple plots at a time. You can, however, use Matplotlib to manipulate different characteristics of figures as well.\par
Features Of Matplotlib\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Matplotlib can create such quality figures that are really good for publication. Figures you create with Matplotlib are available in hardcopy formats across different interactive platforms. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}You can use MatPlotlib with different toolkits such as Python Scripts, IPython Shells, Jupyter Notebook, and many other four graphical user interfaces. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}A number of third-party libraries can be integrated with Matplotlib applications. Such as seaborn, ggplot, and other projection and mapping toolkits such as basemap.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}An active community of developers is dedicated to helping you with any of your inquiries with Matplotlib. Their contribution to Matplotlib is highly praisable. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Good thing is that you can track any bugs, new patches, and feature requests on the issue tracker page from Github. It is an official page for featuring different issues related to Matplotlib.\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b\f0\lang16393 2) Numpy\par
\b0 Numpy is a popular array \f1\endash  processing package of Python. It provides good support for different dimensional array objects as well as for matrices. Numpy is not only confined to providing arrays only, but it also provides a variety of tools to manage these arrays. It is fast, efficient, and really good for managing matrice and arrays.\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Arrays of Numpy offer modern mathematical implementations on huge amount of data. Numpy makes the execution of these projects much easier and hassle-free. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Numpy provides masked arrays along with general array objects. It also comes with functionalities such as manipulation of logical shapes, discrete Fourier transform, general linear algebra, and many more. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}While you change the shape of any N-dimensional arrays, Numpy will create new arrays for that and delete the old ones. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}This python package provides useful tools for integration. You can easily integrate Numpy with programming languages such as C, C++, and Fortran code. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Numpy provides such functionalities that are comparable to MATLAB. They both allow users to get faster with operations.\b\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\f0 3) OpenCV Python\par
\b0 OpenCV, a.k.a Open Source Computer Vision is a python package for image processing. It monitors overall functions that are focused on instant computer vision. Although OpenCV has no proper documentation, according to many developers, it is one of the hardest libraries to learn. However, it does provide many inbuilt functions through which you learn Computer vision easily.\par
Features Of OpenCV\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj OpenCV is an ideal image processing package that allows you to both read and write images at the same time. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Computer Vision allows you to rebuild, interrupt, and comprehend a 3D environment from its respective 2D environment.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}This package allows you to diagnose special objects in any videos or images. Objects such as faces, eyes, trees, etc.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}You can also save and capture any moment of a video and also analyze its different properties such as motion, background, etc.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}OpenCV is compatible with many operating systems such as Windows, OS-X, Open BSD, and many others.\b\f1\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\f0 4) Keras\par
\b0 People who want to learn deep neural networks, Keras can be a real good choice for them. Keras is an open-source deep neural network library. It is written in Python. Keras provides an effective inspection policy over detailed networks. Developers who work with Keras are impressed with its user-friendly and modular structure.\par
Features Of Keras\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Keras is a powerful python library. It is capable of running on Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit, PaidML, TensorFlow, and other platforms as well. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}This python library features a variety of implementations from neural network forming blocks \f1\endash  functions, layers, optimizers, objectives, and others. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Keras also features many useful tools that allow you to work with different images and texts easily. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}It doesn\rquote t only support neural networks only but also provides a fully supportive environment for convolutional and re-current neural networks.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Using Keras, you can build deep models for smartphones \endash  both Android and iOS or for Java Virtual Machine also.\f0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b 5) Tensorflow\b0\par
TensorFlow is a free, open-source python machine learning library. It is very easy to learn and has a handful collection of useful tools. However, it is not limited to machine learning only; you can also use it for dataflow and programs that are differentiable. You can easily get to work with TensorFlow by installing Colab Notebooks in any browser you use.\par
Features Of TensorFlow\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj TensorFlow uses automatic high-performance APIs such as \f1\endash  Keras. It offers an immediate iteration of machine learning models. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}This library features eager execution, which allows you to create, manipulate machine learning models, and make the debugging way easier. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}With TensorFlow, you can easily move your ML models in clouds, on any device and on-premises in any browser. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}TensorFlow comes with an easy to learn architecture. You can easily develop your concept into code and make your publications even easier. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}It has a solution to all of your common machine learning issues. You can easily implement it and go for giving your best.\f0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b 6) Pandas\b0\par
Pandas is a python software package. It is a must to learn for data-science and dedicatedly written for Python language. It is a fast, demonstrative, and adjustable platform that offers intuitive data-structures. You can easily manipulate any type of data such as \f1\endash  structured or time-series data with this amazing package.\par
Features Of Pandas\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Pandas provide us with many Series and DataFrames. It allows you to easily organize, explore, represent, and manipulate data.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Smart alignment and indexing featured in Pandas offer you a perfect organization and data labeling. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Pandas has some special features that allow you to handle missing data or value with a proper measure. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}This package offers you such a clean code that even people with no or basic knowledge of programming can easily work with it. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}It provides a collection of built-in tools that allows you to both read and write data in different web services, data-structure, and databases as well. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Pandas can support JSON, Excel, CSV, HDF5, and many other formats. In fact, you can merge different databases at a time with Pandas.\f0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\b 7) \f1 Scikit Learn\b0\par
Scikit learn is a simple and useful python machine learning library. It is written in python, cython, C, and C++. However, most of it is written in the Python programming language. It is a free machine learning library. It is a flexible python package that can work in complete harmony with other python libraries and packages such as Numpy and Scipy.\par
\f0 Features Of Scikit Learn\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj Scikit Learn comes with a clean and neat API. It also provides very useful documentation for beginners. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}It comes with different algorithms \f1\endash  classification, clustering, and regression. It also supports random forests, k-means, gradient boosting, DBSCAN and others\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}This package offers easy adaptability. Once you get well with the general functionalities of Scikit Learn, switching to other platforms will be no problem at all. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Scikit Learn offers easy methods for data representation. Whether you want to present data as a table or matrix, it is all possible with Scikit Learn. \par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}It allows you to explore through digits that are written in hands. You can not only load but also visualize digits-data as well.\f0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qj\f1\lang9\par
\f0\fs22\par
}
 